# Smart-Attendance-System

Maintaining attendance records in day-to-day activities can be a daunting task. The traditional method of calling each student's name on the is time consuming and there is always the possibility of having a proxy. The following systems rely on facial recognition to keep student attendance records. A student's daily attendance is recorded by subject, which has already been saved by the administrator. When it's time for the corresponding subject, the system will automatically start taking snapshots and apply facial recognition and recognition technology to the designated images. Recognized students are marked as attending and their attendance is associated with the corresponding student updated time and subject ID. We used the deep learning technique to develop this system. A directed gradient histogram is used to detect faces in images, and a deep learning method is used to compute and compare student facial features to detect students. Our system can identify multiple faces of her in real time.


The face is the key part of the human body that uniquely identifies an individual to. Facial recognition systems can be implemented using facial features as biometrics. The most difficult task in any organization is grading attendance. In the traditional attendance system, a student is called by her teacher and indicated presence or absence of the student accordingly. However, these traditional techniques are time consuming and cumbersome. In this project, a facial recognition approach based on OpenCV was proposed. This model integrates a camera to capture the input image, an algorithm to detect faces from the input image, an algorithm to encode and identify faces, an algorithm to mark the presence of in a table and convert it to a PDF file. increase. The training database is created by training the system on approved student faces. Cropped images are stored as a database with appropriate labels. Features are extracted using the LBPH algorithm. Attendance management is a key feature for monitoring student performance across all schools. Each agency does this in its own way. Some of these institutions use old paper and file-based systems, while others use biometric technology to implement automated attendance strategies. A facial recognition system is computer-based biometric software that can identify or verify an individual by comparing patterns based on facial appearance. Management of facial recognition systems has improved significantly over the past years and the technology is now widely used for various goals such as security and commercial operations. 

 
